content/english/net/email-conversion-and-export/_index.md, before:

---
title: Email Conversion and Export
linktitle: Email Conversion and Export
second_title: Aspose.Email .NET Email Processing API
description: 
type: docs
weight: 11
url: /net/email-conversion-and-export/
---

## Email Conversion and Export Tutorials
### [Customizing MHTML Conversion -  C# Implementation](./customizing-mhtml-conversion-csharp-implementation/)
### [Effortless Email Export to EML using C#](./effortless-email-export-to-eml-using-csharp/)
### [Converting Email to MHT with Timezone in C#](./converting-email-to-mht-with-timezone-in-csharp/)
### [EML File Handling -  Load and Save Operations in C#](./eml-file-handling-load-and-save-operations-in-csharp/)
### [Converting EML to MSG Format using C#](./converting-eml-to-msg-format-using-csharp/)
### [Preserving TNEF Attachments when Reading Messages -  C# Approach](./preserving-tnef-attachments-when-reading-messages-csharp-approach/)
### [C# Guide -  Saving Email as MHTML File](./csharp-guide-saving-email-as-mhtml-file/)
### [Draft Message Handling in C# -  Saving Email as Draft](./draft-message-handling-in-csharp-saving-email-as-draft/)
### [Creating HTML Email Files using C# -  Save as HTML](./creating-html-email-files-using-csharp-save-as-html/)
### [Generating OFT Files from Messages -  C# Tutorial](./generating-oft-files-from-messages-csharp-tutorial/)

Commit message:

Updated conversion and export examples

content/english/net/email-conversion-and-export/_index.md, after:

---
title: Email Conversion and Export
linktitle: Email Conversion and Export
second_title: Aspose.Email .NET Email Processing API
description: 
type: docs
weight: 11
url: /net/email-conversion-and-export/
---

## Email Conversion and Export Tutorials
### [Customizing MHTML Conversion - C# Implementation](./customizing-mhtml-conversion-csharp-implementation/)
Learn how to customize MHTML conversion using Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide with C# source code.
### [Effortless Email Export to EML using C#](./effortless-email-export-to-eml-using-csharp/)
Effortlessly export emails to EML format using C# and Aspose.Email for .NET. Learn step by step with source code examples.
### [Converting Email to MHT with Timezone in C#](./converting-email-to-mht-with-timezone-in-csharp/)
Convert emails to MHT format with accurate timezones using Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide and code example provided.
### [EML File Handling - Load and Save Operations in C#](./eml-file-handling-load-and-save-operations-in-csharp/)
Learn how to handle EML files in C# using Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide with code examples for loading, modifying, and saving email messages.
### [Converting EML to MSG Format using C#](./converting-eml-to-msg-format-using-csharp/)
Learn how to convert EML to MSG using C# and Aspose.Email for .NET. A comprehensive guide with code examples for efficient email format conversion.
### [Preserving TNEF Attachments when Reading Messages - C# Approach](./preserving-tnef-attachments-when-reading-messages-csharp-approach/)
Learn how to preserve TNEF attachments using Aspose.Email for .NET in this step-by-step guide with source code.
### [C# Guide - Saving Email as MHTML File](./csharp-guide-saving-email-as-mhtml-file/)
Learn how to save emails as MHTML files using C# and Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide with code examples and FAQs.
### [Draft Message Handling in C# - Saving Email as Draft](./draft-message-handling-in-csharp-saving-email-as-draft/)
Learn how to implement draft email handling in C# using Aspose.Email for .NET. Create, edit, and save drafts seamlessly.
### [Creating HTML Email Files using C# - Save as HTML](./creating-html-email-files-using-csharp-save-as-html/)
Learn how to create HTML email files using C# and Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide with source code for seamless email customization.
### [Generating OFT Files from Messages - C# Tutorial](./generating-oft-files-from-messages-csharp-tutorial/)
Learn how to create OFT files from messages using Aspose.Email for .NET. Step-by-step guide with source code for efficient email template generation.
