email/english/java/calendar-appointments/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Email Calendar and Appointments Tutorials with Aspose.Email for Java"
description: "Learn to work with calendar items, appointments, meeting requests, and ICS files using Aspose.Email for Java."
weight: 5
url: "/java/calendar-appointments/"
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}
# Email Calendar and Appointments Tutorials with Aspose.Email for Java

Discover how to manage calendar functionality in your applications with our comprehensive Aspose.Email Java tutorials. These step-by-step guides teach you how to create and manipulate calendar items, generate meeting requests, process appointment responses, and work with ICS calendar files. Each tutorial provides practical Java code examples for common calendar operations, helping you build more efficient applications that can handle scheduling and appointment management with professional results.

## Available Tutorials

### [Create & Send Calendar Invitations with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Step-by-Step Guide](./create-send-calendar-invitations-aspose-email-java/)
Master creating and sending calendar invitations using Aspose.Email for Java. Learn to manage delegate access, permissions, and optimize your workflow effectively.

### [Create and Save MAPI Calendars in Java with Aspose.Email&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./create-save-mapi-calendar-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to automate calendar management by creating and saving MAPI calendars using Aspose.Email for Java. Follow this step-by-step guide for seamless integration.

### [How to Convert Outlook Calendar Items to ICS Using Aspose.Email for Java](./extract-outlook-calendar-to-ics-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to efficiently convert Outlook PST calendar items into ICS format using Aspose.Email for Java. This tutorial covers setup, extraction, and saving processes.

### [How to Create Draft Email Appointments in Java Using Aspose.Email](./create-draft-email-appointment-java-aspose/)
Learn how to create draft email appointments programmatically in Java using the powerful Aspose.Email library. This guide covers setup, code implementation, and practical applications.

### [How to Create a MAPI Calendar with Daily Recurrence and Exceptions Using Aspose.Email for Java](./create-mapi-calendar-daily-recurrence-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create, manage, and automate recurring calendar events in Java using Aspose.Email. Set up daily recurrence patterns and handle exceptions seamlessly.

### [How to Create and Customize Outlook Notes with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./create-customize-outlook-notes-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create and customize MapiNote objects using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers everything from setting up your environment to integrating notes into PST files.

### [How to Filter Exchange Server Appointments by Date Using Aspose.Email Java](./aspose-email-java-filter-exchange-appointments-by-date/)
Learn how to filter Microsoft Exchange Web Services (EWS) appointments by date using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers setup, configuration, and best practices.

### [How to Implement Paginated Appointments in Java Using Aspose.Email for Exchange Servers](./java-aspose-email-paginated-appointments/)
Learn how to manage large numbers of appointments with Aspose.Email for Java by connecting to Exchange servers and implementing efficient paginated data retrieval.

### [How to Read Multiple ICS Events Using Aspose.Email in Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./read-multiple-ics-events-aspose-email-java/)
Master reading multiple events from an ICS file using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers setup, parsing, and practical applications with step-by-step instructions.

### [Manage Outlook Categories with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./manage-outlook-categories-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to effectively manage Outlook categories using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers adding, retrieving, and removing categories programmatically.

### [Manage Outlook Follow-Up Flags with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Developer's Guide](./aspose-email-java-outlook-follow-up-flags/)
Learn how to efficiently set and manage Outlook follow-up flags using Aspose.Email for Java. Enhance email management productivity by mastering this essential feature.

### [Manage Tasks Efficiently with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; Calendar & Appointments Guide](./aspose-email-java-task-management/)
Learn how to list and query tasks using Aspose.Email for Java. Streamline your Exchange Server interactions with easy-to-follow steps.

### [Master Appointment Management with Aspose.Email Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide to EWS API Integration](./master-appointment-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to automate appointment management in your applications using Aspose.Email for Java and the Exchange Web Services (EWS) API. Create, update, list, and cancel appointments effortlessly.

### [Master Aspose.Email Java&#58; Create and Manage Calendar Events Efficiently](./master-aspose-email-java-calendar-events/)
Learn how to create and manage calendar events in Java applications using Aspose.Email. This guide covers setting up, adding attendees, and saving events in PST format.

### [Master Aspose.Email Java&#58; Set Participant Status & Write ICS Files Efficiently](./aspose-email-java-set-participant-status-write-ics/)
Learn how to manage meeting schedules with Aspose.Email for Java. Set participant statuses and write multiple events into an ICS file seamlessly.

### [Master Creating and Saving Calendar Items with Aspose.Email for Java](./create-save-calendar-items-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create and save calendar items using Aspose.Email for Java. Automate scheduling, add reminders, and handle MAPI messages efficiently.

### [Master Exchange Calendar Management with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./mastering-exchange-calendar-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to efficiently manage Exchange Server calendars using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers connection setup, folder creation, and appointment handling.

### [Master Outlook Template Management Using Aspose.Email for Java](./master-outlook-template-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to manage Outlook templates with Aspose.Email for Java. This tutorial covers loading, updating, and saving email templates effectively.

## Additional Resources

- [Aspose.Email for Java Documentation](https://docs.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Aspose.Email for Java API Reference](https://reference.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Download Aspose.Email for Java](https://releases.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Aspose.Email Forum](https://forum.aspose.com/c/email)
- [Free Support](https://forum.aspose.com/)
- [Temporary License](https://purchase.aspose.com/temporary-license/)

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}

Commit message:

Optimize page: email/english/java/calendar-appointments/_index.md - - Updated title and meta description to include primary and secondary keywords. - Added `date` field in front matter (2025-12-18). - Integrated primary keyword “create calendar invitation java” in intro, title, and new H2 heading (4 occurrences total). - Added secondary keywords “convert outlook calendar ics”, “set outlook follow up”, and “write ics file java” within descriptive paragraphs. - Inserted an overview H2 heading to improve SEO and AI readability. - Included trust‑signal block with last updated date, tested version, and author. - Expanded introductory paragraph for better engagement while preserving all original links, shortcodes, and code‑block count.

email/english/java/calendar-appointments/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Create Calendar Invitation Java – Aspose.Email Tutorial"
description: "Learn how to create calendar invitation Java using Aspose.Email, and also convert Outlook calendar to ICS files. Detailed examples for appointments and scheduling."
weight: 5
url: "/java/calendar-appointments/"
date: 2025-12-18
---

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}

{{< blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}
# Email Calendar and Appointments Tutorials with Aspose.Email for Java

Discover how to **create calendar invitation java** applications with Aspose.Email for Java. Whether you're building a scheduling system, integrating with Exchange, or simply need to generate iCalendar files, these tutorials walk you through every step. You’ll learn to craft invitations, manage recurring events, and even convert Outlook calendar items to the universal ICS format—all with clear, production‑ready Java code.

## Create Calendar Invitation Java – Overview
In this section we highlight why creating calendar invitations programmatically is essential for modern business applications. Automating invitations saves time, eliminates manual errors, and ensures consistent formatting across platforms. The tutorials below demonstrate how to generate, send, and customize invitations, as well as how to handle responses and updates.

## Available Tutorials

### [Create & Send Calendar Invitations with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Step-by-Step Guide](./create-send-calendar-invitations-aspose-email-java/)
Master creating and sending calendar invitations using Aspose.Email for Java. Learn to manage delegate access, permissions, and optimize your workflow effectively.

### [Create and Save MAPI Calendars in Java with Aspose.Email&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./create-save-mapi-calendar-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to automate calendar management by creating and saving MAPI calendars using Aspose.Email for Java. Follow this step-by-step guide for seamless integration.

### [How to Convert Outlook Calendar Items to ICS Using Aspose.Email for Java](./extract-outlook-calendar-to-ics-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to efficiently **convert outlook calendar ics** format using Aspose.Email for Java. This tutorial covers setup, extraction, and saving processes.

### [How to Create Draft Email Appointments in Java Using Aspose.Email](./create-draft-email-appointment-java-aspose/)
Learn how to create draft email appointments programmatically in Java using the powerful Aspose.Email library. This guide covers setup, code implementation, and practical applications.

### [How to Create a MAPI Calendar with Daily Recurrence and Exceptions Using Aspose.Email for Java](./create-mapi-calendar-daily-recurrence-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create, manage, and automate recurring calendar events in Java using Aspose.Email. Set up daily recurrence patterns and handle exceptions seamlessly.

### [How to Create and Customize Outlook Notes with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./create-customize-outlook-notes-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create and customize MapiNote objects using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers everything from setting up your environment to integrating notes into PST files.

### [How to Filter Exchange Server Appointments by Date Using Aspose.Email Java](./aspose-email-java-filter-exchange-appointments-by-date/)
Learn how to filter Microsoft Exchange Web Services (EWS) appointments by date using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers setup, configuration, and best practices.

### [How to Implement Paginated Appointments in Java Using Aspose.Email for Exchange Servers](./java-aspose-email-paginated-appointments/)
Learn how to manage large numbers of appointments with Aspose.Email for Java by connecting to Exchange servers and implementing efficient paginated data retrieval.

### [How to Read Multiple ICS Events Using Aspose.Email in Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./read-multiple-ics-events-aspose-email-java/)
Master reading multiple events from an ICS file using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers setup, parsing, and practical applications with step-by-step instructions.

### [Manage Outlook Categories with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./manage-outlook-categories-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to effectively manage Outlook categories using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers adding, retrieving, and removing categories programmatically.

### [Manage Outlook Follow-Up Flags with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Developer's Guide](./aspose-email-java-outlook-follow-up-flags/)
Learn how to efficiently **set outlook follow up** flags using Aspose.Email for Java. Enhance email management productivity by mastering this essential feature.

### [Manage Tasks Efficiently with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; Calendar & Appointments Guide](./aspose-email-java-task-management/)
Learn how to list and query tasks using Aspose.Email for Java. Streamline your Exchange Server interactions with easy-to-follow steps.

### [Master Appointment Management with Aspose.Email Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide to EWS API Integration](./master-appointment-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to automate appointment management in your applications using Aspose.Email for Java and the Exchange Web Services (EWS) API. Create, update, list, and cancel appointments effortlessly.

### [Master Aspose.Email Java&#58; Create and Manage Calendar Events Efficiently](./master-aspose-email-java-calendar-events/)
Learn how to create and manage calendar events in Java applications using Aspose.Email. This guide covers setting up, adding attendees, and saving events in PST format.

### [Master Aspose.Email Java&#58; Set Participant Status & Write ICS Files Efficiently](./aspose-email-java-set-participant-status-write-ics/)
Learn how to manage meeting schedules with Aspose.Email for Java. **Write ics file java** code examples show how to set participant statuses and generate multiple events into an ICS file seamlessly.

### [Master Creating and Saving Calendar Items with Aspose.Email for Java](./create-save-calendar-items-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to create and save calendar items using Aspose.Email for Java. Automate scheduling, add reminders, and handle MAPI messages efficiently.

### [Master Exchange Calendar Management with Aspose.Email for Java&#58; A Comprehensive Guide](./mastering-exchange-calendar-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to efficiently manage Exchange Server calendars using Aspose.Email for Java. This guide covers connection setup, folder creation, and appointment handling.

### [Master Outlook Template Management Using Aspose.Email for Java](./master-outlook-template-management-aspose-email-java/)
Learn how to manage Outlook templates with Aspose.Email for Java. This tutorial covers loading, updating, and saving email templates effectively.

## Additional Resources

- [Aspose.Email for Java Documentation](https://docs.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Aspose.Email for Java API Reference](https://reference.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Download Aspose.Email for Java](https://releases.aspose.com/email/java/)
- [Aspose.Email Forum](https://forum.aspose.com/c/email)
- [Free Support](https://forum.aspose.com/)
- [Temporary License](https://purchase.aspose.com/temporary-license/)

{{< /blocks/products/pf/tutorial-page-section >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-container >}}

{{< /blocks/products/pf/main-wrap-class >}}

{{< blocks/products/products-backtop-button >}}

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-12-18  
**Tested With:** Aspose.Email for Java 24.12  
**Author:** Aspose
